1. Configure

Run ./configure.

Run make.

Run make install.

For compile-time options run ./configure --help.

Dependencies: almost none. For GUI, install the (-dev or -devel) libs
Read the summary table and the warnings at the end of ./configure output
and decide if you need the features missing. If there was no error, only
warnings, librnd can be compiled, even if some dependencies were missing.

Summary of dependencies:
For users:
 - mandatory: C compiler
 - mandatory: make (BSD make won't work)
 - optional: glib and gtk2 or gtk4 if you are using the GTK GUI
 - optional: opengl with gtk2_gl: gtkglext and libglu (only if you want opengl rendering; if not, use gtk2_gdk, no further deps required)
 - optional: gtk4: libepoxy and libglu (opengl is mandatory for gtk4)
 - optional: motif or lesstif if you are using the lesstif frontend
 - optional: gdlib if you want to export/import to/from png, jpg or gif
 - optional: both genht and fungw (system installed) for extended user scripting

NOTE: if you did not install any GUI lib dependency, librnd will be
compiled with command line interface only.

./configure will try to static link most plugins and disable ones that
have missing dependencies. This process can be controlled using configure
command line switches, see ./configure --help.

NOTE: on OSX, if compilation fails, try --debug for ./configure.

2. Compiling

Run make.

Optionally also run make test.


3. Installation

To install librnd after it has been built run:

  make install

from the top level directory. An alternative installation method
is the link-install, which places symlinks instead of copying files so
no subsequent make install is needed after a recompilation if no new
files appeared (useful for developers):

  make linstall

4. ldconfig

Especially if you are installing to a prefix that differs from /usr, you
may need to tell your dynamic loader about the new .so files after the
installation. How this is done is system specific. On GNU/Linux running
ldconfig as root should work.
